in the US there's been
widespread protests especially on
University campuses but also spilling
through the cities and you see that in
London for example you see it in France
it's a worldwide campaign and so um
first of
all what's your sense of how those
campaigns were organized and who's
lurking behind the scenes there and then
I guess the next thing I'd like to know
is what
you have an opportunity many
opportunities but this is one of them at
least to to say something to people who
believe that they're on the side of the
good when they're protesting Israel's
actions in the Middle East after October
7th so let's start with those those
those protests emerged very rapidly and
they're very very very very well
organized I mean I've seen I've seen the
plans for example for the protesters and
their community at UC La I mean it's a
multi-p unev strategy yeah so so it's at
hand right and I believe they pulled in
the antifa types and the professional
protesters and they more or less know
what they're doing but but it works
clearly clearly it's working you know I
I I I see here A A merge of two
different strands that uh almost are
opposite of each other but in in a
peculiar way uh they they they merge the
first one is radical Islam um we're not
going to change any of their minds and I
um I believe that there's significant
money um you know Qatari money Iranian
money um being funneled towards this
Qatar by the way is is in my uh eyes uh
a terrible regime whose hands are soaked
in Blood and they have a facade of uh
World Cup and this and Olympics and
stuff like that um but they they they
play a two-sided game they they ferment
support fund Terror as we speak and they
pretend to be Western you know
Progressive folks and like Iran everyone
at least knows that Iran is a terrible
regime um so that's one strand and the
other strand is radical Progressive uh
uh
woke idiots
for the lack of a better term uh naive
people who view the world in a neom
Marxist uh frame where there's always a
victim and a victimizer and Israel you
know look I've got white skin here so I
I'm the bad guy by definition forget the
fact that the land of Israel has been my
homeland for 3,800 years forget the fact
that much of those 3,800 years we had a
stage in Israel and when we weren't in
that state we were uh praying three
times a day I I pray every morning um we
will return to Jerusalem now we are in
Jerusalem and it's it's incredibly
difficult uh to to pull someone out of
that that frame because basically if
you're the aggressor and he's the victim
he's allowed to do anything he's allowed
to uh murder people uh toward
people because he's the victim um and
factually that that that just is not
true um the the Arabs uh have huge areas
of land I think hundreds of time the
size of of Israel I'd let your viewers
know they probably don't know Israel and
its entirety is the size of New Jersey
that's how big we are it's a tiny tiny
country and you know before before the
came back home beginning in the late uh
um
1800s um it was a desolate
Barren um miserable land infested with
mosquitoes and malaria and and as there
were there was always Jewish presence
but it wasn't under Jewish um governance
but as Jews came uh around the world and
began to to flourish this this desolate
land um Arabs began coming from Iraq
from uh uh Egypt in their names
Palestinian names many of them are
called el- masri which means Egypt Maser
is is Egypt El bagdadi all this all that
see see that which is fine that's okay
uh but
uh the the you know go go get a life
stop being victims go go build your
future uh and it seems to me that they
their core ideology is to prevent us
from having a state and not rather than
them having their own future yeah well
the victim victimizer narrative is a
very me though you're you're I I you
know because tell
me why are so many people against Israel
and what can we do about it I I'm I'm
you're the psychiatrist here the well I
think part of it is um the politics of
envy you know the Jews are the
perennially successful minority even in
the story of Exodus the reason that the
Pharaoh Rises up against the Jews is
because they're disproportionately
successful in Egypt even though the
Egyptians were beholden to them not long
before that they're disproportionately
successful okay so Joseph helped Egypt
Thrive I mean right right absolutely
which so part of that narrative is that
the influx of Jews was actually of great
utility to the Egyptian population but
then the Jews became disproportionately
successful and that always happens it
always happens and so then the issue is
well what do you do with the
disproportionately successful and the
response to that is twofold you can be
happy for the fact of their productivity
and their success because they share
their knowledge and their abilities with
everyone around them and the rising tide
lifts all boats or you can decide that
anybody who has more took it and is a
thief and a crook and there's always
corruption in every Enterprise so
there's always things you can point to
so what I see is that the Jews are also
The Perennial Canary in the coal mine
when when societies take a turn against
those who are successful and start to
Define them as criminals the Jews are
the first people to be targeted and all
that indicates is that all the that's
more in socialist uh type Societies or
communist societies that that but but it
you know anti-Semitism also thrived when
Jews were miserable and unsuccessful
so we weren't always not in every pocket
were we successful and yet like it's
everywhere um well there's also there's
also you know the mere fact that that
ethnic differences can easily be
inflamed and that people are radically
you know we're we're relatively insular
by our psychology you know it's me and
then it's me and my family and then it's
me and my family and my community right
it's it's harder for us to extend that
ethos of concern as people get more
distal and there's which makes sense by
the way well of course it does because
something has to mediate in group
Identity or we wouldn't be social right
so obviously I care more about my child
than a stranger right I mean right right
and you might say well you shouldn't
because there's no logical reason and
the right rejoinder to that is well I
don't have infinite resources that's
right can't care for every child in the
world with the same intensity as I would
for my own child because there's too
many of them and too little of me so I'm
going to be loc what do you think we can
do because you know sometimes I'm
flabbergasted I I'm I'm always
interviewing that CNN BBC and all that
and and I feel sometimes I'm barely
moving the needle and and you know the
the the the reality is so different than
what we're portrayed and what do you
think we can do about it
well I think going after the victim
victimizer narrative is a good long-term
strategy because it's extremely
pathological and so to the degree that
we've been messaging around this that's
in in various Enterprises that I'm
involved in that's what been one of our
primary targets of concern there's
something wrong with the politics of
Envy if you divide the world up into
oppressor and oppressed and now you're
good merely because you um are on the
side of the oppressed or or are an ally
like that's just too simple moral
equation and it's and and there's every
bit of reason for skepticism in
relationship to that but it's also very
bad for you to regard yourself as a
victim horrible because you lose agency
and you lose hope and you're subject to
someone else's wom it's so funny you
know um my dad May rest in peace uh Jim
Bennett he he he was raised uh not far
from here in San Francisco and I guess
the biggest thing I took from him was he
never whined he never complained and it
was self-reliance that's the he always
faced the whatever situation and and
took responsibility he didn't talk about
it he just did it well one of the things
you see that so deeply ingrained in me
and and that's why when I see you know
whiners uh and and not to say that they
isn't discrimination suffing a suffering
and there's discrimination and people
don't have
the same uh starting point but um it's
such
a how will it be able to sustain itself
this ultr Progressive Movement if they
manufacture people who are designed to
not take responsibility so it ought to
collapse ultimately well it historically
movements like that do collapse envious
resentful movements collapse they won't
work
[Music]